%
The restful sates can be looked upon as attenuated (i.e. "thinned out")
versions of the active ones. In other words, Relaxation, Peace, Blank, and
Quiet are very toned down versions of Touch, Feel, Image, and Talk. Just
as Touch, Feel, Image, and Talk weave together to create a gross sense
of self, so do Relaxation, Peace, Blank, and Quiet weave together to
create a subtle one. But this subtle, attenuated version of self is more
porous and penetratable than the gross one. The classic "absorption"
path to enlightenment involves abiding in that attenuated restful self,
then penetrating it with so much clarity that it dissolves into flow,
and eventually vanishes, leading to insight into no self—the heart of
Buddhist enlightenment.
%
Mindfulness designates any growth process based on acquiring and applying
concentration, clarity, and equanimity skills and capable of providing
industrial strength effects.
%
Tell it to no one but the wise
For most will mock it right away
The truly living do I prize
Those who long in flame to die.

In the coolness of loves evenings
Where you beget and were begotten,
You're overcome by strange new feeling
As the silent candle brightens.

No longer are you trapped and mired
In the darkened shadowings
But swept away by new desire
To a higher lovemaking.

Distance does not pall your flight
Spellbound through the air you're borne
Til at last mad for the light
You are a butterfly, then... gone.

And until you know of this:
How to grow through death
You're just another grumpy guest,
On the gloomy earth.
  -- Goethe, "Holy Longing", Translated by Shinzen Young
%
How much of what, when, and where interacting in what ways and changing
at what rates?
%
The only difference between those and the (so called) enlightened ones
is, they notice it!
  -- http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=drLxJSpeb8c
%
The Buddha said, 'If you look very carefully, the perception "I am" goes
away, and the perception of the five aggregates of identification arises.'
  -- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MB96tQi_08s
%
Subtle is significant.
%
